Danzo Shimura
I guess this is the extent of Sasuke’s power.
You were too hasty. My eye is still open.
Go to Itachi so he can lecture you.
I win.
What's going on?!
This feels like…
You may think you've seen through Izanagi…
What is the meaning of this?
Why won’t Izanagi activate?
Danzo, as you said,
Sasuke's genjutsu is a far cry from Itachi’s.
You insolent…
You're the one who's going to see Itachi.
Just as I thought, this one is the real Danzo!
It’s a far cry from Itachi’s Tsukuyomi,
in which he freely manipulated time within a genjutsu.
But the trick lies in how you use
even a short, weak genjutsu.
With Izanagi, a Sharingan is cast away once its use is exhausted.
One eye will keep the jutsu active for 60 seconds.
However… Y-You fool! Why are you engaging him?
It may have seemed suicidal,
but Sasuke's relentless attacks were intended to
to completely shut down Danzo's Sharingan one by one.
He knew exactly what he was doing.
That is why… just before they exchanged blows,
every Sharingan on his right arm had already shut.
Sasuke is an Uchiha.
And he is a ninja who possesses the Mangekyo Sharingan.
His skills of observation, Danzo, are keener than yours.
In an instant, before you were even aware,
Sasuke placed a genjutsu on you and made you believe
that the last eye on your right arm was still open.
You yourself were concerned
about the instability of the Izanagi’s duration
and kept checking the Sharingan on your right arm.
Sasuke did not miss that.
Very subtly, he wanted to make you think
the Izanagi would last a little longer.
He had already confirmed that he could place you under genjutsu,
even if it was just for an instant.
And Sasuke seized that opportunity.
Because you also possess the Sharingan,
you underestimated how to use it in battle.
Your arrogance led to your defeat.
Now that’s battling with your eyes.
Don't underestimate the Uchiha.
Danzo didn't get to use Shisui's eye,
but you pressed him into a corner, Sasuke.
Looks like I’ll be able to take Shisui’s eye soon.
The Foundation should have stayed hidden underground.
Sasuke!
Are you all right?
Hurry up and bite!
Bringing that woman was a wise decision.
She's useful.
I see why Sasuke chose her.
How could I…of all people… lose to this brat?!
I can’t die here yet!
No, at this rate, I’ll be taken over by the First Hokage’s cells!
He's near death and he’s losing the ability to control chakra.
Hashirama's power is not easy to control.
What a persistent guy!
Not yet…
This is where we battle with our eyes.
The visual prowess in his right eye has returned.
I see. He intended to use Izanagi until Shisui's eye recuperated.
Shisui's visual prowess…
He's trying to decide whether to use it for genjutsu,
or sacrifice it for the Izanagi.
You used your visual prowess too much, didn’t you?
Sasuke…
Sasuke is no longer useful.
As I thought, Madara’s the one I need to place
under genjutsu and manipulate.
I can’t waste time, my wound is deep.
Now then, Sasuke. What will you do?
Isn't it ironic that you, who glorified self-sacrifice,
would take a hostage?
It's not that I consider my life precious.
But for the sake of Hidden Leaf Village… for the ninja world…
I cannot afford to die here.
No matter what the means, I must survive.
For I will be the one reformer who will change this ninja world.
This woman will be sacrificed for that cause.
Sasuke help!
Don't move…Karin.
A vital point… Right through the hostage!
That’s what I wanted to see.
Brother… One down.
You didn't have time to cast Izanagi, did you, Danzo?
Sasuke… What was I…
…to you?
Karin…
Since you managed to get taken hostage,
you’re nothing but a burden to me.
Sasuke…
Danzo…
I'm taking Shisui's eye.
Is Itachi here?
We need to talk, come out!
What brings you all here?
There were two people who didn’t show up at yesterday’s assembly.
Why didn’t you come?
We understand that joining the Anbu Black Ops means
being pushed to do all sorts of petty assignments.
Your father has said as much and tries to defend you.
But we have no intention of giving you special treatment.
I understand. I shall be more careful hereafter.
Now, I’m going to have to ask you to leave.
All right.
But before that,
we’d like to ask you a bit more about something.
It’s about Shisui Uchiha who died
after throwing himself into the Nakano River last night.
He took Shisui's eye?
Are you all right, Danzo?
Why'd you interfere, Hiruzen?!
Don't say that.
We don't want to lose comrades in a situation like this.
You're alive!
Kagami! Torifu!
Yeah, I managed somehow.
There are too many of them. What'll we do, Hiruzen?
Yeah, you're right.
We should meet up with the Second Hokage.
We're surrounded.
There are…
20 of them.
Judging from their tracking skills,
I'd say they're from the Hidden Cloud.
The highly skilled Kinkaku Unit.
There are seven of us including you, Lord Hokage.
We're completely outnumbered.
Homura! Don't be such a coward.
The enemy hasn't pinpointed our position yet.
We should lie in wait until we can find an opportunity to break through.
It's no use, Koharu.
One of us will have to divert their attention.
A decoy?
It means certain death.
So who?
I am a shinobi.
I’ve made up my mind to die on the battlefield like a proper shinobi.
Sarutobi…
What are you thinking now?
Are you prepared to make that sacrifice?
Go ahead! Say it! That I’ll…
What's the matter?
Why can't I say it?
I will go!
Sarutobi… Hiruzen, you…
Don't worry!
I may not look it, but I know I’m better than any of you.
I won't die.
My trembling…stopped.
Damn it! I'm such a coward.
Somewhere deep inside my heart,
I feel relieved.
Look after the others, Danzo. I know you’ll—
Shut up! I was planning on volunteering!
Don't try to steal the spotlight! I'll be the decoy!
Danzo…
My father and grandfather both died on the battlefield as shinobi.
Self-sacrifice is a shinobi's duty!
No, I will go and be the decoy, of course.
You all are the young Wills of Fire that
will be defending our village in the future.
No! You are the Hokage!
There is no greater shinobi in the village than you!
Danzo, you are always competing with Saru over one thing or another,
but what's necessary here
is for you to unite and work together as comrades.
Do not make this a personal fight.
The fact is, you took too long to reach a decision.
You must first look at yourself rationally and know yourself.
Otherwise, at this rate, you will place your comrades in danger.
In any case, Danzo and Saru…
You two are still young, so don't be hasty.
Your time will come.
Until that time, stay alive.
Saru…
Protect those who love the village and those who believe in you.
And nurture those to whom you can entrust the next generation.
Starting tomorrow, you are the Hokage!
Saru… Take care of the Hidden Leaf!
Yes, sir!
You always get ahead of me!
For the sake of the ninja world… for sake of the Hidden Leaf…
I will not let you both live!
This is the Reverse Tetragram Sealing Jutsu.
Sasuke!
Get away from Danzo!
Hiruzen, it's my turn next.
Where the tree leaves dance, one shall find flames.
The fire’s shadow will illuminate the village.
And once again tree leaves shall bud anew.
Just as you gave your life to protect the Hidden Leaf.
This time, I will.
I cannot allow these men…
But in the end, I could not become the Hokage.
No matter how far I ran, I could never catch up to you.
You were a tree leaf upon which light shone.
I was nothing but a foundation hidden in darkness.
What do you think of someone like me?
Hiruzen…
What was I to you?
I wonder when I started liking Sasuke.
I never thought about who he really was behind that pensive face.
I’m sorry Naruto, I let you bear the burden all on your own.
But also, thank you!
I already decided!
Next time on Naruto Shippuden: “Sakura’s Resolve”
I hope I get there in time!
Tune in again!